---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "JavaScript and Me: New Beginnings"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-08-31
published: true
labels:
  - Computer Science
---

So far, after completing the 113 modules in JavaScript Basics and then the 29 modules in ES6 I get the feeling that JavaScript is a versatile language that is powerful while leaving itself accessible to a wide range of users when it comes to coding level. It feels similar to python where a lot can be left to interpretation by the compiler, as not all variables have to be declared with a type. 

Although I haven’t encountered this situation yet, I can see a case where the versatility of the language can backfire if a bug in the code stems from not declaring a variable or function explicitly. This comes with the easy readability of the code, which seems to be a trade off many languages face during initial design. 

I’ll be completely honest, athletic engineering has been a fun experience so far with each WoD (practice or real) that I’ve attempted so far. I feel like it’s been improving my ability to think on the spot and incorporate what coding knowledge I know into a problem presented to me. However, these feelings could just be the way they are considering I’ve been able to finish each WOD so far. Once I start coming across WODs that bring me past the DNF time, or I just can’t figure them out, I will probably think negatively about them. The stress of each WOD being 100% or nothing puts a lot of pressure on being able to code clearly. While I’ve yet to attempt a coding interview with a potential employer, I feel like WODs would give a similar experience which can help me prepare for the inevitable.


And the final answer - it's supposed to be difficult, and it's supposed to challenge you, just like everything else that humans do that is difficult: programming, engineering, engaging in relationships, pondering the universe, etc.

Ultimately the question you should really ask yourself if something if particularly difficult is then "is it worth it"? That is something that is context specific and only you can answer yourself.
